.\" revdep(1) manual page
.\" See COPYING and COPYRIGHT files for corresponding information.
.Dd November 21, 2024
.Dt REVDEP 1
.Os
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh NAME
.Nm revdep
.Nd check for missing or wrong libraries of installed packages
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm revdep
.Op Fl Vehptv
.Op Fl L Ar ldsoconffile
.Op Fl D Ar pkgdbfile
.Op Fl R Ar revdepdir
.Op Fl I Ar pkgname Ns Op , Ns ...
.Op Ar pkgname ...
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
checks libraries and binaries of installed packages for missing shared
library dependencies.
It is useful when an upgraded package breaks other software packages
that are dependent upon the upgraded package.
.Pp
.Nm
uses elfutils'
.Xr libelf 3
and the same algorithm that
.Xr ld.so 8
uses.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl L Ar ldsoconffile , Fl -ldsoconf Ns = Ns Ar ldsoconffile
Specify an alternate location for
.Pa ld.so.conf
file instead of the default
.Pa /etc/ld.so.conf .
That file contains a list of directories, one per line, in which to
search for libraries.
.Pp
.Sy Note :
This option is ignored on non-glibc systems.
.It Fl D Ar pkgdbfile , Fl -pkgdb Ns = Ns Ar pkgdbfile
Specify an alternate location for the package database file instead of
the default
.Pa /var/lib/pkg/db .
.It Fl R Ar revdepdir , Fl -revdepdir Ns = Ns Ar revdepdir
Specify an alternate location for
.Nm
package configuration directory instead of the default
.Pa /etc/revdep.d .
.Pp
See
.Sx "Additional Library Directories"
below and
.Xr revdep.d 5
for more information.
.It Fl I Ar pkgname Ns Oo , Ns ... Oc , Fl -ignore Ns = Ns Ar pkgname Ns Op , Ns ...
Comma-separated list of packages to ignore.
.It Fl e , Fl -erroneous
Include erroneous files in the output.
.It Fl p , Fl -precise
Include precise file errors in the output.
.It Fl t , Fl -trace
Show debug/trace.
.It Fl v , Fl -verbose
Formatted listing.
.It Fl V , Fl -version
Print version and exit.
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Print help and exit.
.El
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------
.Ss Additional Library Directories
Upon startup,
.Nm
searches the
.Pa /etc/revdep.d
directory for files named after packages.
These files contains additional library directories to search if a
library dependency is not found in one of the many standard locations.
.Pp
See
.Xr revdep.d 5
for more information.
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width 2n -compact
.It 0
There are no missing libraries found, all is ok.
.It 1
Failed to parse command-line arguments.
.It 2
Failed to read package database.
.It 3
Failed to read
.Pa ld.so.conf .
.It 4
Found at least one missing library.
.El
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh EXAMPLES
Try this command to list broken packages:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
revdep
.Ed
.Pp
Use this command to rebuild broken packages on your system:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
pkgman update -fr $(revdep)
.Ed
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr revdep.d 5
.\" ==================================================================
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
Original shell script was written by
.An Johannes Winkelmann Aq Mt jw@tks6.net
as part of
.Dq Sy prt-utils
package for
.Lk http://crux.nu/ "CRUX" .
.Pp
The C++ rewrite was done by
.An James Buren Aq Mt ryuo@frugalware.org
with design contribution by
.An Danny Rawlins Aq Mt contact@romster.me .
.Pp
This implementation was re-worked for Zeppe-Lin System by
.An Alexandr Savca Aq Mt alexandr.savca89@gmail.com .
.\" vim: cc=72 tw=70
.\" End of file.
