=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 revdep - check for missing libraries of installed packages

revdep is a package management tool that checks for missing libraries
of installed packages.

This revdep distribution is a fork of CRUX' revdep utility (which is
part of CRUX prt-utils distribution) as of commit 41dfcb6 (Thu Oct 15
2020).  The man page have been rewritten in POD (Plain Old
Documentation).  Command-line arguments also have been rewritten.
Added exit codes to ease scripting.  Added bash completion.

The original sources can be downloaded from:

=over

=item git

  git clone git://crux.nu/tools/prt-utils.git
  git checkout 41dfcb6

=item web

 https://crux.nu/gitweb/?p=tools/prt-utils.git;a=summary

=back

=head2 Dependencies

=head3 Build time

=over

=item *

c++ compiler

=item *

L<make(1p)|https://www.mankier.com/1p/make>,
L<sh(1p)|https://www.mankier.com/1p/sh>,
and standard POSIX utilities like
L<sed(1p)|https://www.mankier.com/1p/sed>,
L<mkdir(1p)|https://www.mankier.com/1p/mkdir>,
L<cp(1p)|https://www.mankier.com/1p/cp>,
L<cd(1p)|https://www.mankier.com/1p/cd>,
L<rm(1p)|https://www.mankier.com/1p/rm>,
L<chmod(1p)|https://www.mankier.com/1p/chmod>

=item *

L<pod2man(1pm)|https://www.mankier.com/1/pod2man> from perl
distribution

=item *

elfutils

=back

=head3 Tests

Tests require B<Build time> dependencies and the following:

=over

=item * L<podchecker(1pm)|https://www.mankier.com/1/podchecker>

Check POD for errors.

=item * L<httpx(1)|https://github.com/projectdiscovery/httpx>

Check for broken URLs.

=back

=head2 Install

The shell commands C<make; make install> should build and install this
package.  See F<config.mk> file for configuration parameters.

The shell commands C<make; make check> should build and start some
tests.  See F<Makefile> for more information.

=head2 Usage

See L<revdep(1)|https://zeppe-lin.github.io/revdep.1.html>.

=head2 License and Copyright

revdep is licensed through the GNU General Public License v3 or later
<https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
Read the COPYING file for copying conditions.
Read the COPYRIGHT file for copyright notices.

=cut

# vim:sw=2:ts=2:sts=2:et:cc=72:tw=70
# End of file.
